.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH STRIP 1 "binutils-2.17.50.0.6" "11/Nov/2008" "GNU Development Tools"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
strip \- Discard symbols from object files.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
strip [\fB\-F\fR \fIbfdname\fR |\fB--target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR]
      [\fB\-I\fR \fIbfdname\fR |\fB--input-target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR]
      [\fB\-O\fR \fIbfdname\fR |\fB--output-target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR]
      [\fB\-s\fR|\fB--strip-all\fR]
      [\fB\-S\fR|\fB\-g\fR|\fB\-d\fR|\fB--strip-debug\fR]
      [\fB\-K\fR \fIsymbolname\fR |\fB--keep-symbol=\fR\fIsymbolname\fR]
      [\fB\-N\fR \fIsymbolname\fR |\fB--strip-symbol=\fR\fIsymbolname\fR]
      [\fB\-w\fR|\fB--wildcard\fR]
      [\fB\-x\fR|\fB--discard-all\fR] [\fB\-X\fR |\fB--discard-locals\fR]
      [\fB\-R\fR \fIsectionname\fR |\fB--remove-section=\fR\fIsectionname\fR]
      [\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB\-p\fR|\fB--preserve-dates\fR]
      [\fB--keep-file-symbols\fR]
      [\fB--only-keep-debug\fR]
      [\fB\-v\fR |\fB--verbose\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB--version\fR]
      [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--info\fR]
      \fIobjfile\fR...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
GNU \fBstrip\fR discards all symbols from object files
\fIobjfile\fR.  The list of object files may include archives.
At least one object file must be given.
.PP
\fBstrip\fR modifies the files named in its argument,
rather than writing modified copies under different names.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-F\fR \fIbfdname\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR" 4
Treat the original \fIobjfile\fR as a file with the object
code format \fIbfdname\fR, and rewrite it in the same format.
.Ip "\fB--help\fR" 4
Show a summary of the options to \fBstrip\fR and exit.
.Ip "\fB--info\fR" 4
Display a list showing all architectures and object formats available.
.Ip "\fB\-I\fR \fIbfdname\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--input-target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR" 4
Treat the original \fIobjfile\fR as a file with the object
code format \fIbfdname\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-O\fR \fIbfdname\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--output-target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR" 4
Replace \fIobjfile\fR with a file in the output format \fIbfdname\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-R\fR \fIsectionname\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--remove-section=\fR\fIsectionname\fR" 4
Remove any section named \fIsectionname\fR from the output file.  This
option may be given more than once.  Note that using this option
inappropriately may make the output file unusable.
.Ip "\fB\-s\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--strip-all\fR" 4
Remove all symbols.
.Ip "\fB\-g\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB\-S\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB\-d\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--strip-debug\fR" 4
Remove debugging symbols only.
.Ip "\fB--strip-unneeded\fR" 4
Remove all symbols that are not needed for relocation processing.
.Ip "\fB\-K\fR \fIsymbolname\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--keep-symbol=\fR\fIsymbolname\fR" 4
When stripping symbols, keep symbol \fIsymbolname\fR even if it would
normally be stripped.  This option may be given more than once.
.Ip "\fB\-N\fR \fIsymbolname\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--strip-symbol=\fR\fIsymbolname\fR" 4
Remove symbol \fIsymbolname\fR from the source file. This option may be
given more than once, and may be combined with strip options other than
\fB\-K\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR" 4
Put the stripped output in \fIfile\fR, rather than replacing the
existing file.  When this argument is used, only one \fIobjfile\fR
argument may be specified.
.Ip "\fB\-p\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--preserve-dates\fR" 4
Preserve the access and modification dates of the file.
.Ip "\fB\-w\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--wildcard\fR" 4
Permit regular expressions in \fIsymbolname\fRs used in other command
line options.  The question mark (?), asterisk (*), backslash (\e) and
square brackets ([]) operators can be used anywhere in the symbol
name.  If the first character of the symbol name is the exclamation
point (!) then the sense of the switch is reversed for that symbol.
For example:
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&        
\&          -w -K !foo -K fo*
.Ve
would cause strip to only keep symbols that start with the letters
\*(L"fo\*(R", but to discard the symbol \*(L"foo\*(R".
.Ip "\fB\-x\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--discard-all\fR" 4
Remove non-global symbols.
.Ip "\fB\-X\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--discard-locals\fR" 4
Remove compiler-generated local symbols.
(These usually start with \fBL\fR or \fB.\fR.)
.Ip "\fB--keep-file-symbols\fR" 4
When stripping a file, perhaps with \fB--strip-debug\fR or
\fB--strip-unneeded\fR, retain any symbols specifying source file names,
which would otherwise get stripped.
.Ip "\fB--only-keep-debug\fR" 4
Strip a file, removing any sections that would be stripped by
\fB--strip-debug\fR and leaving the debugging sections.
.Sp
The intention is that this option will be used in conjunction with
\fB--add-gnu-debuglink\fR to create a two part executable.  One a
stripped binary which will occupy less space in \s-1RAM\s0 and in a
distribution and the second a debugging information file which is only
needed if debugging abilities are required.  The suggested procedure
to create these files is as follows:
.Ip "1.<Link the executable as normal.  Assuming that is is called>" 8
\f(CWfoo\fR then...
.Ip "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --only-keep-debug foo foo.dbg\fR to>" 8
create a file containing the debugging info.
.Ip "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --strip-debug foo\fR to create a>" 8
stripped executable.
.Ip "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --add-gnu-debuglink=foo.dbg foo\fR>" 8
to add a link to the debugging info into the stripped executable.
.Sp
Note \- the choice of \f(CW.dbg\fR as an extension for the debug info
file is arbitrary.  Also the \f(CW--only-keep-debug\fR step is
optional.  You could instead do this:
.Ip "1.<Link the executable as normal.>" 8
.Ip "1.<Copy \f(CWfoo\fR to  \f(CWfoo.full\fR>" 8
.Ip "1.<Run \f(CWstrip --strip-debug foo\fR>" 8
.Ip "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --add-gnu-debuglink=foo.full foo\fR>" 8
.Sp
ie the file pointed to by the \fB--add-gnu-debuglink\fR can be the
full executable.  It does not have to be a file created by the
\fB--only-keep-debug\fR switch.
.Sp
Note \- this switch is only intended for use on fully linked files.  It
does not make sense to use it on object files where the debugging
information may be incomplete.  Besides the gnu_debuglink feature
currently only supports the presence of one filename containing
debugging information, not multiple filenames on a one-per-object-file
basis.
.Ip "\fB\-V\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--version\fR" 4
Show the version number for \fBstrip\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-v\fR" 4
.Ip "\fB--verbose\fR" 4
Verbose output: list all object files modified.  In the case of
archives, \fBstrip \-v\fR lists all members of the archive.
.Ip "\fB@\fR\fIfile\fR" 4
Read command-line options from \fIfile\fR.  The options read are
inserted in place of the original @\fIfile\fR option.  If \fIfile\fR
does not exist, or cannot be read, then the option will be treated
literally, and not removed.  
.Sp
Options in \fIfile\fR are separated by whitespace.  A whitespace
character may be included in an option by surrounding the entire
option in either single or double quotes.  Any character (including a
backslash) may be included by prefixing the character to be included
with a backslash.  The \fIfile\fR may itself contain additional
@\fIfile\fR options; any such options will be processed recursively.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the Info entries for \fIbinutils\fR.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no
Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the
section entitled \*(L"GNU Free Documentation License\*(R".

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "STRIP 1"
.IX Name "strip - Discard symbols from object files."

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-F\fR \fIbfdname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--help\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--info\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-I\fR \fIbfdname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--input-target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-O\fR \fIbfdname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--output-target=\fR\fIbfdname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-R\fR \fIsectionname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--remove-section=\fR\fIsectionname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-s\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--strip-all\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-g\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-S\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-d\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--strip-debug\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--strip-unneeded\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-K\fR \fIsymbolname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--keep-symbol=\fR\fIsymbolname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-N\fR \fIsymbolname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--strip-symbol=\fR\fIsymbolname\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-p\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--preserve-dates\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-w\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--wildcard\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-x\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--discard-all\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-X\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--discard-locals\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--keep-file-symbols\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--only-keep-debug\fR"

.IX Item "1.<Link the executable as normal.  Assuming that is is called>"

.IX Item "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --only-keep-debug foo foo.dbg\fR to>"

.IX Item "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --strip-debug foo\fR to create a>"

.IX Item "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --add-gnu-debuglink=foo.dbg foo\fR>"

.IX Item "1.<Link the executable as normal.>"

.IX Item "1.<Copy \f(CWfoo\fR to  \f(CWfoo.full\fR>"

.IX Item "1.<Run \f(CWstrip --strip-debug foo\fR>"

.IX Item "1.<Run \f(CWobjcopy --add-gnu-debuglink=foo.full foo\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-V\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--version\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-v\fR"

.IX Item "\fB--verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB@\fR\fIfile\fR"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

